## ***Too hard to get: the role of probabilistic expectations and cognitive complexity in reference point effects***

### **Research Overview**

My research seeks to investigate the effects of conflicting reference points
across different dimensions of utility on effort exertion. Reference-dependent
preferences have become more prevalent in economic analysis, but models so far
have assumed additive separability across different dimensions of utility, which
implies that agents respond to reference points in each dimension individually
without consideration for the others. Challenging this assumption, I hypothesize
that agents consider multi-dimensional reference points holistically: agents are
less responsive to reference points if they have low probabilistic expectations
of being able to concurrently achieve them and/or if they have difficulty 
reconciling them into a single baseline against which to evaluate outcomes. I
incorporate these effects into the Koszegi-Rabin reference-dependent preference
model, and will test them through an experiment where subjects work on a real 
effort task with targets (i.e. reference points) in (conflicting) performance
dimensions of speed and accuracy. Subjects are split into different treatment
groups which augment their probabilistic expectations of concurrently achieving
both targets and the cognitive complexity required to reconcile them. Then, I
will analyse the likelihood of target achievements across the different groups
to verify my proposed effects.

### **Data Description**

### **Main Analysis and Findings**

## **Repository structure**

* _extensions: contains quarto extensions for publication formats
    * aog-article: extension for generic scholarly article format
    * wjschne/apaquarto: extension for APA format
    * elsevier: extension for Elsevier journal format
* data: contains raw and processed data files, along with associated coding files used for data cleaning and wrangled
* manuscript-apa.qmd: reproducible research paper manuscript in APA format
* manuscript-apa.pdf: knitted research paper pdf in APA format


